>> ThePrimeagen: Let's kind of redo
what we did with ansible, except for
we're gonna do it with our
little bash script right here.
So what we're gonna do here is we're
gonna update our neovim scripts to
be identical to our ansible script.
So to do that, I'm gonna jump
back to the MF ansible thing.
I'm just gonna grab this whole.
This thing really quickly jump
back here and I'm just gonna rep,
I'm just gonna paste this all in.
'cause I want you to see the difference.
I want you to feel it.
I want you to know what it
felt in your soul to do this.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna delete all these lines.
Bam.
Five lines gone.
I'm gonna go, get,clone branch.
v0.10.1 that just clones out that branch.
And I'm gonna wanna put that
in home personal neovim.
There we go.
Delete that.
Look at that.
Look at how simplified that, I mean,
for me, this is just like why again,
I just like the bash approach.
I just get it.
I can look at it.
I feel this.
I do it every day, right?
All right,
we need some sudo make installs.
So I'm gonna go sudo or
app install do that bring that up here and
then just throw those for
them again feeling so good, right?
Like that's just feeling darn good.
We're gonna change into
that directory now.
We have to go cd Home,
personal, and neovim.
And then, by the way,
always use things like home.
You don't have to use, because if you use
like the full qualified path it can be,
let's see, what is it, XF?
There we go.
If you change systems and
you don't have the same name life sucks.
So just use.
Use those,
it just makes life a little bit easier.
All right, and then params and
if I'm not mistaken, it's just, I believe
that is all that is, and then we just
have to do a little pseudo-make install.
Alright.
And so now I am now Stalling Neo Vim in
five lines instead of, 44 lines Ansible.
So configuration over convention.
Which one's better?
One's more messy, more error prone.
I'd say the other one is just more like
you have to look up every detail to get
things right.
Tapper.
>> Speaker 2: Was that expansion
shortcut a neo vim thing or.
>> ThePrimeagen: Yeah.
If you do Ctrl+X, Ctrl+F, it will expand
any path based on where you're at,
and it will let you kind of look at it.
So if I go like this, it'll say,
okay, I have these two directories.
And what's in here,
I have these two and so
it's kind of like already built
in little file under standard.
It's already there.
It's a fun thing, you know?
Neovim privilege,
you wouldn't understand that's great.
Actually, you might understand, I'm not
sure [LAUGH] All right, you're learning,
we're learning.
So now, if I were to actually
run this thing right here,
you would notice right away,
hey, look at that.
Come on, let me go like this RM,
RF, personal neovim.
Let me just destroy neovim really
quickly and so now I can run this.
You can see it clone right in.
It goes through.
It's going to clone in just that
single branch, which is fantastic.
It takes a little bit.
There's a lot of, people have been
developing on it for a while.
There's a lot of stuff in there.
A lot of history, a lot of commits,
a lot of features.
Hey, we didn't need all the views this
time You didn't need all the what?
The v's.
There's no v's.
Notice that you recognize all this output.
So when something goes wrong,
it feels really easy to fix,
which is also really nice.
You live and you learn as time goes on.
And I think I've just kind of ended in
this really kind of basic approach to life
where I just don't want to have
to think about things anymore.
If that makes sense, right?
I don't want,
I just wanted to build it the way I want.
I don't want to have to go look up
everyone else's software to do something
that's relatively simple,
like installing a bunch of things you need
is actually a relatively simple process,
and we effectively have a decently
extensible version in 44 lines.
And it's not like I was trying
that hard in writing this.
This is just okay, script.
I'm sure that a bunch of
bash people were like,
actually, they were very upset
at some of the things I did.
if you don't get your password wrong once,
there you go.
And then you can even see this.
Look at this, you can see that,
okay, look at that, we're building.
Okay, this looks good,
we got 200% like 18 times.
You can watch it happen.
I like watching things happen makes
me feel better on the inside.
I don't feel freaked out that it's
just stalled to doing who knows what.
And so there we go.
This looks fantastic.
And so now we have some executable code.
What do we do in this one?
Look at that,
I didn't even do the little -b right here.
I did the whole fetch and
checkout business.
So you can even make it more
verbose than you need to make it.
And just like that,
that's why I like Bash.
I used Ansible for years.
I'm not using it anymore.
There you go.
We're moving on.
We're moving on with life.
And that's just that.
The little neovim building thing
did actually end up building and
everything looks fantastic.
So if I now run neovim,
you'll notice it's at 10.1.
Bada bing, bada boom.
Five lines.
Looks everything looks great.
All right, someone, I did see someone ask,
is all of that just?
To build neovim?
Well, no, it's to build anything, right?
Because now I can have neovim.
It's, I can have whatever I want.
If we were to re execute any of
those things, we can have all that.
I can hit run with just a foo so
that way we skip over neovim
run the foo bar, fantastic.
And it just allows for all that.
And so there you go, step one of where I
think my environment's better than yours.
Sorry, I'm sure yours is also very nice,
but I like mine better.
Okay, so all we've talked about is just
getting software onto your machine or
setting it up into a state
in which you want.
But we haven't talked about dot files, the
configurations, the customizations, right?
The good stuff, the gold of your
experience, right here, right?
Well, for those are unfamiliar with the
term dot files, we're talking about like
your bash RC, your zish RC, your vim RC,
all these are examples of dot files.
They typically are ran before the program
that you're running setup is complete, and
so they run at some point
within the startup lifecycle.
I can't tell you where, but
they run at some point, right?
Like your VimRC or
Anit.Lua runs after some hydration
of the environment has happened.
And then they'll run your script cuz
obviously like the Lua engine needs
to be ready to be able to run Lua.
So it's just like at some point
within the startup, it runs.
All right, we got a question already.
>> Speaker 3: Just one thing I did like
about the Ansible approach was having
the SSH key ready to go for
cloning private repos.
>> ThePrimeagen: So, UNO reverse, you can
still use like, so one thing we could do,
remember how I had that whole like,
pip install Bonanzas going on here.
We could have in here, Ansible.
We could have inside of here,
some sort of Pip3 install ansible or
however you want to install it.
That way you have your vault and then you
can clone down your place with your keys.
You can ansible vault it all out.
Type in your little password because
it will prompt you right then and
there for your password so
you don't have to do it at the very,
very top of your program hoping you didn't
get it wrong until you get all the way
down to the bottom where you need it.
And so you'll have that nice little
ansible Ansible approach, and
you can do it with multiple, and
you can have different keys for
different ones, right?
There's like a whole bunch of reasons
why it's actually better this way, and
then you can just have it right then and
there.
So you can still use Ansible Vault and
this approach.
Nothing says they're
somehow mutually exclusive.
You just don't have to use
Ansible to install everything.
In fact, you can even use Ansible and
this approach, right?
Nothing says you can do it all.
This is kind of a do it all, do your
own adventure kind of approach here.
It's just a really dumb script runner.
And I just simply use it with the
convention of this starts my machine ready
to be production ready.
That's it.
And so it's a pretty simple approach.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: Your approach for
running this kind of script setup on like
a server, would you do that on a server
versus your own personal setup?
>> ThePrimeagen: So I'm building
this just for just for myself.
If it was a server, you'd probably want
to use something that's a little bit more
production grade, right?
No one's relying on, like when you
have to set up a new computer,
people usually have
the expectation of a day.
If you're ready in five minutes,
that's fantastic.
If you're ready in thirty minutes,
that's fantastic, right?
That's good and so I don't I'm not
considering this like a server experience.
The only thing I said
is that with Ansible,
this it's supposed it's
designed to work with servers.
That's why it has an inventory, a list
of nodes that you're actually working
with in executing these commands
remotely as long as you have,
the proper authority on that computer.
So for me, I just went really hard,
and wow, I have a server, right?
And that's all that it was.
And so that's why we are, that's why I
wouldn't recommend this for your company,
cuz that'd be crazy, right?
That would probably be a I mean,
maybe it would work, I don't know, but
I just don't think I'd
wanna live that life.
Maybe I would wanna live that life,
I'd have to see the situation before.
Four, I'd say yes or no to it.
>> Speaker 3: The senior engineer answer.
It depends.
>> ThePrimeagen: It depends,
and you're doing it wrong.
And I also think the bike
shed should be blue.